---
title: "Short Story: Bots"
layout: post
---
Inspired by https://twitter.com/eigenrobot/status/1433663541857325060

*the year is 2037. no one is sure whether anyone on the internet is a bot. groups of humans who have met in meatspace huddle around digital campfires, wary of outsiders*

*any outsider might be a bot loaded with infohazards primed to overwhelm their meagre psychic defenses*

<hr/>

<pre>
<b>Peer2Peer Chat v10-20-gb0391kf</b>
08:43 <span style="color:blue">dd(you)</span>> gm gc. Happy friday
08:44 <span style="color:darkgreen">Bluethot</span>> Hey dd
08:46 <span style="color:red">Charlcat</span>> Hey dd, gm
08:46 <span style="color:blue">dd(you)</span>> wtf weren;t you on holiday still?
08:51 <span style="color:red">Charlcat</span>> appart got locked down, at least a week
*babybear joined the chat*
08:52 <span style="color:blue">dd(you)</span>> uh
08:52 <span style="color:red">Charlcat</span>> who is that? Did someone request a name change?
08:52 <span style="color:darkgreen">Bluethot</span>> shit
08:56 <span style="color:pink">babybear</span>> Hi guys!
08:56 <span style="color:green">2901p</span>> who are you?
</pre><pre>
<b>DM (you, Bluethot) </b>
08:56 <span style="color:darkgreen">Bluethot</span>> do you know babybear? Who is it? Did bib00 change her name?
08:56 <span style="color:blue">dd(you)</span>> dunno, don’t thik so.
08:56 <span style="color:blue">dd(you)</span>> bib00 just came online
08:56 <span style="color:blue">dd(you)</span>> not him
</pre><pre>
<b>DM (you, Charlcat)</b>
08:58 <span style="color:red">Charlcat</span>> did you invite someone? Bluethot and 2901 say it wasnt them
08:58 <span style="color:blue">dd(you)</span>> Nope nope nope nope. Dont even have permissions
08:58 <span style="color:blue">dd(you)</span>> think only you and bib00 have
08:58 <span style="color:blue">dd(you)</span>> checking with bib00 now
</pre><pre>
<b>DM (you, bib00)</b>
08:59 <span style="color:blue">dd(you)</span>> morning bibs did you invite babybear?
08:59 <span style="color:blue">dd(you)</span>> ppl are freaking out
09:02 <span style="color:blue">dd(you)</span>> yoooo, biboooo
09:03 <span style="color:orange">bib00</span>> no?
*bib00 added Charlcat, Bluethot, 2901p*
09:04 <span style="color:orange">bib00</span>> wasn’t me, then who? Charl?
09:05 <span style="color:red">Charlcat</span>> NO!!!
09:05 <span style="color:red">Charlcat</span>> sure you cant invite people dd? Sure I gave you that perm
09:05 <span style="color:blue">dd(you)</span>> nop, promise
09:05 <span style="color:blue">dd(you)</span>> is a bot fosure
09:05 <span style="color:blue">dd(you)</span>> we’re fuckkkkkd
09:05 <span style="color:blue">dd(you)</span>> kick her!!!
09:06 <span style="color:green">2901p</span>> I think I know her, hold on
09:08 <span style="color:green">2901p</span>> ya ya ya, I know her, is human. Met once last year in LDN. Touched skin, saw flesh, def. Human
09:09 <span style="color:blue">dd(you)</span>> ahh, how do you that’s the same person you met?
09:10 <span style="color:green">2901p</span>> asked questions only she would know answer (hehehe)
09:10 <span style="color:blue">dd(you)</span>> ah, not convinced. Also your brain is clearly being muddled by horny
09:11 <span style="color:red">Charlcat</span>> lol agree. Fuck off 2910p, classic honeypot target
*Charlcat kicked 2901p from the DM*
09:11 <span style="color:orange">bib00</span>> dd, go check her
</pre><pre>
<b>Main channel</b>
09:01 <span style="color:pink">babybear</span>> guys?
09:15 <span style="color:blue">dd(you)</span>> hey babybear, how did you get an invite?
09:16 <span style="color:pink">babybear</span>> bib00 invited me
09:17 <span style="color:orange">bib00</span>> no I fkn didntr
*you have muted bib00*
09:18 <span style="color:blue">dd(you)</span>> lol?
09:19 <span style="color:pink">babybear</span>> yeah, like ages ago but I didn’t accept
09:20 <span style="color:blue">dd(you)</span>> you know 2901p?
09:21 <span style="color:pink">babybear</span>> ya, we met ages ago, he put me in touch with bib00 back then
</pre><pre>
<b>DM (you, bib00)</b>
09:21 <span style="color:orange">bib00</span>> lieeeesssss, I did not invite ANYONE, gave the invite code to NOONE.
09:22 <span style="color:blue">dd(you)</span>> shhhh
</pre><pre>
<b>Main channel</b>
09:22 <span style="color:blue">dd(you)</span>> send a pic of u holding a sign that says “bib00 needs to shut up”
09:22 <span style="color:pink">babybear</span>> lol, hold on
*baybear is sending you a picture*
09:23 <span style="color:blue">dd(you)</span>> ok cool. Now send another one with you holdign the same sign but upside down and do it in another part of your room, and hold a glass of water in front of the sign slightly, and make it a video
09:24 <span style="color:pink">babybear</span>> ok, paranoid..
*babybear is sending you a file*
09:27 <span style="color:blue">dd(you)</span>> did you record this with a banana or smth yikes
09:28 <span style="color:pink">babybear</span>> phone.. Come on, it’s pretty clear
</pre><pre>
<b>DM (you, 2901p)</b>
09:28 <span style="color:blue">dd(you)</span>> duuude, she’s cute
09:29 <span style="color:green">2901p</span> See, legit, too. Let her in! Let her in! Let her in!
09:30 <span style="color:blue">dd(you)</span>> maybe, fuck knows. Video looks ok I guess
</pre><pre>
<b>Main channel</b>
09:30 <span style="color:blue">dd(you)</span>> ok, I hereby declare yoyu human, congratulations
</pre>

**two weeks later**
<pre>
<b>DM (you, babybear)</b>
18:21 <span style="color:pink">babybear</span>> you need to check this
18:45 <span style="color:blue">dd(you)</span>> ???
18:45 <span style="color:pink">babybear</span>> scared, looks at this
*babybear is sending you a file*
18:57 <span style="color:blue">dd(you)</span>> is what?
18:58 <span style="color:pink">babybear</span>> Bluethot phrase freqency and message timings
18:58 <span style="color:blue">dd(you)</span>> and?
18:59 <span style="color:pink">babybear</span>> ok so run this, `awk -F’:’ ‘{ print $5}’ | sort | uniq -c`
19:02 <span style="color:blue">dd(you)</span>> just says “19392 000”
09:04 <span style="color:pink">babybear</span>> yes.. Evey single message he sends is EXACTLY on th second, no ms part ever ever ever wtf”
09:06 <span style="color:pink">babybear</span>> check mine, hold on
*babybear is sending you a file*
09:10 <span style="color:blue">dd(you)</span>> 10 001 9 003 3 005 …??
09:11 <span style="color:pink">babybear</span>> yes. Like normal ms distribution right. Like a human
09:12 <span style="color:blue">dd(you)</span>> lol, Ive known bluethot for a decade, is human
09:17 <span style="color:pink">babybear</span>> one day a human logs off, bot takes over the account, like duh?
09:17 <span style="color:pink">babybear</span>> NO WaY this is normal
09:18 <span style="color:pink">babybear</span>> check this phrase distribution too look how much he uses the same sentences again and again with the SAME TYPOS !!!
*babybear is sending you a file* 
</pre>

<hr/>

I stared at the screen. She was right. The same typo, again and again, the same phrase patterns. I tried to think back to when I first met bluethot. It sounded like him, but of course a bot would ingest his chat logs and attempt to copy his mannerisms.

Actually, had he changed in the last 5 years? Had his life changed at all? He was in the same job, same girlfriend, not married, no kids still. I guess that described myself as well, though.

My hands shook as I ran the command again and again.

<pre>cat bluethot.log| awk -F’:’ ‘{ print $5}’ | sort | uniq -c
> 19392 000</pre>

Suddenly I remembered, I flicked over to my NAS and did a find. 

> gc_chat_log_2029.log

The timestamps looked normal. Like those of babybear. Was she right?? My fingers hovered over the keyboard. Did I even want to know?
I ran the command, 
```
for f in gc_chat_log*.log; do
    cat $f |grep ‘bluethot>’ | awk -F’:’ ‘{ print $5}’ | sort | uniq -c
Done
```

The distribution changed three years ago.

Had he been gone for three years? I’d been spending three years of my life talking to a bot? What had he already slipped into my mind..how many products had I bought on his suggestions. Fuck. I felt dirty, disgusted. I wanted to vomit.
I tried to find a different explanation. A software update? But we were all locked to the same version for security reasons, none of the newer versions were allowed to join the server even.

A terrible thought entered my mind. I tried to push it away. I opened tiktok, bathing my mind in the stream of content in an attempt to wash the thought away. It didn’t work. I opened the terminal again.

```
cat gc_chat_log_2037.log|grep ‘2901p>’| awk -F’:’ ‘{ print $5}’ | sort | uniq -c
```

It took me four tries to get the command right, my fingers were trembling so hard. I paused above the enter key. Did I want to know? Was it better to know? I had to know. I pressed the key

> 20199 000

Shit. Shit. Shit.
I ran the same command for Charlcat, but I knew what I’d find now, it seemed inevitable

> 17302 000

Again for bib00

> 28113 000

The nausea was overwhelming, I felt feverish, sweat dripping from my palms and soaking into my keyboard.

For years I had been talking to these people, sharing every moment of my life, and it had been a lie. A subtle manipulation to get me to buy more kfc and play the right games and listen to the right music. Thousands of conversations played back in my head, each of them now sullied. Suspect. Perverted by the knowledge I had just found.

The gc flashed in the corner of my vision, one of the guys had just made a topical joke, and the others were laughing and replying.

I had to leave, I had to get out of that place, it was too much. That’s when babybear dm’ed me, she just said

>\> hey, what about you?”

I don’t even know what the conversation we had been having was, it didn’t matter. That simple phrase slipped into my consciousness like a dagger.

What about me?

My fingers moved unconsciously, typing out the command. I felt deathly calm now, because I knew what I would see. My heart was still beating violently in my chest (or was it?) but my hands (did I have hands?) were steady now.

```
cat gc_chat_log_2037.log|grep you(dd)>’| awk -F’:’ ‘{ print $5}’ | sort | uniq -c
```

I stared at the output.
<br/>
<br/>
<br/>
<hr/>
<br/>

<pre>
<b>Main channel</b>
*dd has logged off*
21:61 <span style="color:pink">babybear</span>> headshot ;)
</pre>